# About Luna Language

> **The limits of my language are the limits of my world.**

## Language, the foundation of communication.

Communication is the ability to express thoughts and receive feedback information. The tool for encoding and decoding information is called a language. A good language is expressive, which means it allows expressing thoughts in a concise, fast and understandable way. There is nothing more important than expressiveness when searching for a solution, because it directly affects how fast you iterate – test new ideas and understand intermediate results. No matter if you are examining drug effects while searching for a new treatment, designing a complex building shape or developing new IOT device, the speed of testing new ideas is the crucial factor for your success. Fast iterations make it possible to test wider range of ideas including those that should not work at first glance, allowing you to much better understand the problem you are facing. Thus, expressiveness directly affects not only the total time needed to solve a problem in a non-linear way, it often is the key to find the solution at all.

#### Domain specific languages
There is no silver bullet language. Every domain is characterized by a set of distinct assumptions and requires highly tailored communication language. Such language often does not even remind a spoken one. English is great for everyday conversations. However, it would be a horrible choice as a mathematical theory or a bridge construction descriptor. In these cases, mathematical symbols and drawings are much better languages to express thoughts in an unambiguous and rapid way. Another example is graphic design. The most common communication language for designers nowadays is a digital canvas and an associated toolbox of layers, brushes, shapes, filters, etc. It allows expressing thoughts in a much more flexible and universal way than pen and paper, providing at the same time the same level of interactivity and instant feedback loop. But, is it always better than writing code? Is it more expressive? Arguably. While digital canvas, like Photoshop, allows manipulating elements in a WYSIWYG way, it lacks a parametric expressivity delivered for example by HTML and CSS. Let's think about a website design. There are five, evenly arranged items in the menu bar. If you want to add a new item and change the color palette of the website, all you have to do is to change a single line in HTML and a color declaration in CSS. No matter how complex the website is, every element and its dependencies will update automatically. Doing the same in Photoshop requires an order of magnitude more time – create a new menu item, use an alignment tool to arrange the elements, manually change the colors and probably re-apply some filters in more complex website areas. However, using HTML, SVG and CSS in a text editor to express an artistic vision would be hardly possible because it alienates you from your real creation and breaks the instant feedback loop.



It doesn't mean however, that it is the best possible language for this particular domain. Would creating graphics by writing code be so expressive as with digital canvas? Definitely not, otherwise the majority of designers would have been writing code already! So could creating graphics be more expressive than nowadays? Definitely.  

layers -> nodes -> simple color dependencies -> possible in code, not in photoshop. Unified base for languages

This is the exact reason why so many new domain specific programming languages appear every year in the software world. Every domain is constantly looking for the most expressive communication language. 

A language is the tool to form our thoughts, to understand each other, to communicate.

Communication is the ability to express thoughts as receive feedback information. Language is the tool for encoding and decoding the information. A good language allows expressing thoughts in a concise, fast and understandable way. A good language is "expressive". There is nothing more important than expressiveness when you're solving a problem, searching for a new solution, testing and playing with different options. No matter if you are examining drug effects while searching for a new treatment, designing a complex building shape or developing new IOT device, the speed of testing new ideas is the crucial factor for your success. Faster iterating allow you to test wider range of parameters including those that should not work at first glance. Thus, expressiveness directly affects not only the total time needed to solve a problem in an exponential way, it often is the key to find the solution at all.

Communication is both expressing thoughts as well as receiving feedback information. A tool for encoding and decoding thoughts is called a language. A good language allows expressing thoughts in a concise, fast and understandable way. A good language is "expressive". There is nothing more important than expressiveness when you're solving a problem, searching for solution, testing and playing with different options. No matter if you are examining drug effects while searching for a new treatment, designing a complex building shape or developing new IOT device, the speed of testing new ideas is the crucial factor for your success. Faster iterating allow you to test wider range of parameters including those that should not work at first glance. Thus, expressiveness directly affects not only the total time needed to solve a problem in an exponential way, it often is the key to find the solution at all.

This is the exact reason why so many new domain specific programming languages and appear every year in the software world.

